## Exercise 2.77. 

Louis Reasoner tries to evaluate the expression (magnitude z) where z is the object shown in figure 2.24. 

```
('complex ('rectangular (3 4)))
```

To his surprise, instead of the answer 5 he gets an error message from apply-generic, saying there is no method for the operation magnitude on the types (complex). He shows this interaction to Alyssa P. Hacker, who says "The problem is that the complex-number selectors were never defined for complex numbers, just for polar and rectangular numbers. All you have to do to make this work is add the following to the complex package:"

```
(put ’real-part ’(complex) real-part)
(put ’imag-part ’(complex) imag-part)
(put ’magnitude ’(complex) magnitude)
(put ’angle ’(complex) angle)
```

Describe in detail why this works. As an example, trace through all the procedures called in evaluating the expression `(magnitude z)` where `z` is the object shown in figure 2.24. In particular, how many times is apply-generic invoked? What procedure is dispatched to in each case?

### Answer
When `(magnitude z)` is called (prior to Alyssa's fix), the `magnitude` procedure is defined (p. 184) as:

```scm
(define (magnitude z) 
  (apply-generic 'magnitude z))
```

`apply-generic` executes a lookup for a procedure that matches operation name (`magnitude`) with the type of `z`. But when the complex number packages were installed (p. 182-3), the `magnitude` operation was only registered for the `rectangular` and `polar` types.

That causes a problem because `z`'s type is `complex`.

By adding `(put ’magnitude ’(complex) magnitude)` to the table, the first run of `apply-generic` passes the contents of `z`, which is `('rectangular (3 4))`, to the `magnitude` procedure, which again calls `apply-generic` but passes the contents `(3 4)` to the `magnitude` procedure defined in `install-rectangular-package`. 

One additional note: Alyssa suggests registering `real-part`, `imag-part`, `magnitude` and `angle` to work with `complex` types, but for this exercise just registering `magnitude` is enough to make the system work.